A Pension of Culverts.

It began with a downpour and an updraft. Then a message from my old friend Jenny. We'd always had a friendship that could be described as a bit "will they, won't they?", but with me being in favour of "will" and her coming down rather more strongly on the side of "won't". I'd pushed my luck at a Christmas party and hadn't heard from her since, so I was surprised to read that she wanted to meet for coffee on Sunday. 

I stood on the street and stared at my phone as the rain blattered at my trousers. The wind curled needily into the gaps in my clothing and got between my bones. Jenny had always liked the rain; she was the kind of woman that'd do that kind of thing out of sheer perversity. That was probably what drew me to her. It was inevitable that she'd become an artist, after her parents had died during our first year of university. Not because she was especially talented, but because she could afford it. Irritatingly, she was quite successful with it. A small group of colourful 3d-printed "meta-sculptures" had made her one of the more talked-about figures of the London scene for a couple of months three years ago, and she knew how to make the right connections.

What the hell. I'd meet her. I knew it was a bad idea, but that didn't matter. Of course I was going to meet her. 

[ more info about jenny + carl ]

*

When I got to the cafe, it was empty. There was a tingling in my neck.

I sat down with my flat white and heard a growl from under the table. Then something huge sunk its teeth into my leg. I screamed a bit and did a sort of pneumatic pumping writhe, which swept the condiments to the floor. Some deeper part of my brain took the reins and I plunged my fork down into the top of the black, furry head that was wrapped around my knee. The word 'jaguar' was hanging about in the front of my mind. I still seemed to be stabbing downwards and to the right, as if I was mashing potatoes. In the shadow I saw a flash of two eyes that looked like lemons. There was blood on my hand and wrist, I noticed. Some blood on the red leather seat. My leg was buzzing and I realised that it was no longer caught in anything, so I launched myself sideways out from the side of the table and glided satisfactorily across the tiles. I came to a rest just short of a well-groomed leg.

"What the fuck have you done to my cat, Gerald?"

That was Jenny's voice. I followed it upwards and discovered the owner looking down at me. Then I realised I was quite unintentionally staring up her skirt, and that just made her look even more disapproving so I averted my eyes. I've always been bashful in coffee shops. 

"What the fuck has your bloody jaguar done to my bloody leg, more like!" I sputtered, pained. I gestured with a shaking arm towards the dining booth that was the creature's lair. It was upright and staring at my neck, but it didn't seem to be moving. 

"Actually she's a melanistic leopard. Yes, I am sorry about your leg, as a matter of fact... but I had to let her do that, or the whole thing would have been meaningless. I think you'll probably have to have it taken off, I'm afraid. You're bleeding quite a lot."

She was right. It was too wiry and angular to be a jaguar, now that I got a better look at it.

"The... whole thing would have been meaningless? What whole thing?" I asked.

"My current project." she explained, patting the hand-held video camera that I now saw she'd been pointing at me. She turned it off with every sign of satisfaction in a job well done. 

"It's a series of pieces about what happens when you let yourself do the things that everyone thinks about doing but which society has conditioned you never to actually carry out."

"Like setting leopards on people you don't like, you mean? Because I-"

"Oh, Gerald, I don't not like you. It's just that it came into my head, and then I kept thinking about it. And once it was stuck in there, it would have been dishonest of me not to include it in the work."

Perhaps I was just insensitive to the more subtle requirements of fine art, but- no. That wasn't it; I quite like art. She was just a loony.

"Anyway, I should go." she said with a slightly apologetic air. "I've called you an ambulance."

She calmly decoupled the leopard's leash from the post under the table and walked out of the cafe with the big black thing padding along behind her, looking for all the world as if it was in a quirky advert for some new perfume.

* 

I was lucky about the leg, it turned out. There'd be some scarring, but I'd probably walk without crutches in a few months. For the time being, though, I was laid out on a hard bed, staring at the ceiling and bored out of my mind. The ceiling was the clean, white, bubbly kind that had clearly had every possible interesting quality painstakingly removed at the design stage. I closed my eyes and listened to sounds of the ward. A nurse was explaining to the man Albert, whom I'd made the mistake of speaking to shortly after I arrived and had been doing my best to avoid ever since, that she hadn't taken his car keys - please don't use that language - and nobody else had taken them either, because he didn't, in fact, own a car. Albert was here because he had severely burned his arms somehow. I assume, based on my understanding of what I inferred to be his general motivation in life, that he did this himself in a deliberate attempt to make some kind of point about "benefits cheats". Suffice it to say, I would ordinarily have been glad to hear that a person like this had badly burned his arms, except that the fact that this was the cause of my having met him at all rather outweighed any pleasure I could get from that. 



"You seen my car keys, mate?"
"No Albert, I have not seen your car keys."
"Fuckin... alright then."

He wandered off. 

[I mentally wandered the corridors of the hospital]

[ something happens to trigger a change ]

[ upon being discharged (or before?) Gerald quits his job in order to do something (investigate the mystery?) ]



"Mr Fong? You have a visitor!"

It was Alex. Alex was my boss. Ordinarily she was quite chirpy, but now she looked tired and almost sallow. 

"Hi Gerald. Thought I'd drop by to see how you're doing."

"I'm doing OK, thanks, Alex. How's work?"

"I'll be honest, we're struggling. We need you back, Gerald. Nothing works."

"I don't know, Alex... look, I'm not sure when I'll be out of here. You might need to manage without me."

"The doctor said you'd be able to leave on Monday at the latest."

"I... Yeah. I'm sorry. I think- I don't want to come back. I like it and all, it's just... I have something I need to do."

She was looking crestfallen. I wondered whether I was making the right decision. Why was I doing this? I couldn't afford to quit my job and I knew it. Was I cracking up? Quite possibly. These weeks of bedbound captivity had been whirling my thoughts around my skull and amplifying the stresses and strains of my soul to the point where I could barely tell who I was talking to at any given time. There was a great black cloud of mist gathering inside my ears; every nerve felt as though it was being shouted at. But somewhere deep inside, I knew this had started long before. For years now I had been coasting - hardly even making physical contact with the world. Nothing affected me, and I affected nothing. Before the accident I would not have been surprised to wake up one morning and find that my hands simply passed straight through the door-handle. I was drifting away from life... still technically connected to it, but floating at a great distance; perhaps at the end of a long cord...

A change was needed. This was a drastic one, I knew, and probably not the right one. But I knew also that I could not continue along the same path any further. I had already gone too far.

I noticed I was fidgeting with the folds in the sheets. My hands were cold and gelatinous and I had been staring at nothing for a solid thirty seconds. I looked up. Alex had collected herself and was watching me.

"I understand, Gerald. If there's anything I can help with..."

"No! I mean... thanks. I'll let you know if I change my mind."

"You do that."


*

[ The party ]


*

[ unknown ]
A towel draped over the back of a chair tiredly, and empty bottles littered the kitchenscape as if cast aside by the spirit of Comus himself during a particularly hasty revel.   Somebody had placed all of the forks into a kind of Sapphic configuration on the carpet of the lounge.  There was half a pot of greek yoghurt under the coffee table. [ Twelve green penny whistles were arranged on the dresser, but I couldn't see any connection there.   ]

The windows had all been left wide open. I did spot the irony inherent in a housewarming party leaving the house colder than it had been before, but I was not in the best condition to appreciate it. I closed the windows.

I coughed vociferously at my shins; bent over like an old man. I was folded up like an envelope. "Put something on your feet", my father would have advised. Probably not a bad idea, but I left them bare out of stubbornness. Bloody freezing.
Amongst the general detritus, somebody had left a phone on the table, sitting next the second bowl of peanuts. I wasn't sure who it belonged to, so I picked it up and collapsed onto the sofa to investigate. There was a new message, and it didn't take long for my curiosity to get the better of me.  My heart lit up out of habit - it was from Jenny. But the words made me stop cold:

"Please dont hurt him i'm getting it for you i promise, i just need one more week x"

I shivered. I tried to imagine what this could mean, and there was no way I could come up with to make it sound anything other than very sinister. I frantically checked the phone for more information, but it was as if the whole thing had been wiped - other than that one message, I could find nothing at all. I needed to speak to Jenny about this. I wanted to believe it was just some kind of joke, but it didn't seem like her style. I tried to call her from the phone in my hand, but there was nothing doing. When I checked, it turned out there was no sim card.

"Jenny! If this is one of your stupid art projects, I can tell you right now I'm not-"

I stopped. She was sobbing.

"Jenny, what's the matter?"

There was a deep, unsteady breathing from the other end of the line. When her voice came, it sounded weedy and distant.

"Carl's gone."

I'd already known, but a hot pang shot through my core as I felt her pain.





*


Mr. Seed wore a pleasing grey suit. His muscular eyebrows gave the appearance of having been skillfully arranged, so as to betray nothing of developments within. In his left hand, he bore a carrot. As I drew near, he pocketed it and led me calmly to a table.

"Why do you have a carrot?" I asked. I am not generally known for my directness, but there are occasions for which I'm willing to make an exception. He chuckled a little and brushed past the topic with a disarming smoothness.

"Ahah, if I had a penny for every time I'd been asked that. No; what we're here to discuss, Mr Fong, is the subject of your employment. I understand that you have access to something that my organisation is... very interested in acquiring. Is this correct?"

He spoke softly and quickly, with a faint Chinese accent and an eager tone. I didn't have a clue what he was on about, but something told me that it really wouldn't be in my best interest to admit that.

"Perhaps," I hazarded. "That depends on many things."

"Of course. I understand. A man such as yourself does not get into this position by accident; it is a matter of strategy and of careful planning. Of course. You must consider all of your options. It would not be fair of me to suggest otherwise. But I can assure you, that if you are open to doing business, I believe we are able to make you a very competitive offer."

"What kind of an offer?"

Mr Seed gyrated his lips with a curious kind of distaste.

"I am going to give you a number. Please do not insult me by attempting to negotiate. My colleagues and I have discussed the matter and have settled on a sum which we believe will be sufficiently generous to assuage any reasonable doubts you may have. Unreasonable doubts... well - let us just say that I am sure you are a reasonable man. Now. When I give you this figure, you may leave it, or you may take it. Those are the two options that are available to you. I strongly suggest... that you take it."

While speaking, Mr Seed had retrieved the carrot from his pocket and started to write on it with a biro. He finished, and held out the vegetable to me. I viewed it with suspicion. In a beautiful blue copperplate, against the orange backdrop, was written a very, very large number.
I paused for a moment, and tried to weigh up my options. It was difficult to make any headway with this because I still didn't have the foggiest idea about what I was being asked to do. Given the circumstances, it would almost certainly be a terrible idea to take the carrot. It was still being thrust out in front of my nose, at the end of what suddenly seemed like a very long arm. The tip wobbled a little.
I think I would still be there now, had my default decision-making procedure not kicked in at the last minute. My default decision-making procedure, it turns out, is the one that says "fuck it, what have you got to lose". When I thought back to this moment afterwards, I realised that it's probably fair to say that of all my personality traits, this is the one that has got me into the most trouble over the years. My perpetual state of having nothing to lose has been reliably maintained by my making bad decisions purely based on the fact that I have nothing to lose. But as I now know: there's nothing, and then there's Nothing. In times like these it takes a wiser man than me to spot the difference. I took the carrot.

After a slightly reverent pause, Mr Seed broke into a broad grin. I smiled back - a little uncertainly, but it seemed the thing to do. This just made him beam even more widely, and then finally he broke into a kind of oily guffaw that didn't seem friendly at all. I was on the point of retracting the whole thing and telling him to get stuffed, when he suddenly spun around on the toe of his shoe and skipped off around a corner. 

*

[ Gerald meets someone and is carrying the carrot. Gerald uses the same response as Mr Seed. ]

He frowned.
"Why do you have a carrot?"

"If I had a penny for every time I'd been asked that."

"No, seriously. Why do you have a carrot?"

"Well, I didn't want the stick."



*

[ ??? ]

"My God, Charlie. You don't want to know what I just found."
"What? Hit me with it."
"You wouldn't enjoy that; it's a dead pigeon."
"Nice. Where'd you find that?"
"All over the back garden. I think a fox must have been disassembling it for parts."


*

[ meeting Jenny ? ]

I tapped her on the shoulder.

"Jesus, Gerald. Don't just come at me grinning like that. I thought you were a barracuda."

I couldn't help but resent this a little.

"Thanks. Those tactfulness classes you were taking have clearly worked wonders."

"You think so? I never went back after the first one. I told the instructor to fuck off, and he said he thought that was an interesting contribution."



*

"What's that? I can smell you! You're electric, I can see it! What are you carrying? Come here, you bastard!"

[Karl's crazy monologue. holding a knife?]
Got you. You fuck. 

"Carl, you-"

Shut up. Do you suppose I like doing this? I'm doing this because I have to. If I don't do this, you'll carry on. And you'll teach your children to do it, and they'll teach their children.  Do you know why I'm doing this? Do you understand? For such a long time I ignored it. I didn't want it to be. But I knew it was. She'd go to meet you at the weekend.

Trust is the only thing that matters, and you destroyed that. 

Let me tell you about the time I thought I saw God, Gerald. The figure standing at the altar in dark yellow woven robes and facing the wall. I could see only the hood and ... but I knew it was him. He seemed to cast a sort of radiance onto the stone, and as I realised and became surer I was filled with an exctasy that was unlike anything I've known. I felt connected with him, and with every atom in the universe, and we all moved around each other in a glorious, joyful dance. I ran with outstretched arms down the aisle towards the focus of his presence and I seemed to leave my body behind. But as I began to float above the carpet the figure turned slowly to reveal a featureless face, of black dust which swirled and dissipated into nothing.

"This Earth is a ball of worms, Gerald. Worms and maggots, climbing on top of each other, all trying to suffocate the ones underneath. And humans are the worst of all, because we're the best at it. 

I don't blame you for your selfishness. It's ingrained - in you, in me, in all of us. For a million years, you've held your children aloft while your neighbours' have drowned. Mud, fire and plague... anything terrible is what's made us. You're the sum of all the people you've killed. You're not a person - you're a negation. What did you do to deserve life? What did any of us do?

"

[ threatens ]

[ starts slurring & collapses ]

His eyes were wide, and flicked wildly around without stopping to focus. The coarse black hairs on his chin were flecked with spittle.

The man stopped, facing the wall and breathing heavily. For a second he seemed on the point of tears. He made a
guttural noise, and then lunged awkwardly towards me. His face was locked into a silent scream and shudders were racking his body. The knife hit the
floor. His muscles seemed to be trying to tear themselves free. Very slowly, he tipped forwards and slid down the wall, and lay on the tiles, spasming violently. Afterwards, I wished I'd tried to help him sooner. I just remember thinking he looked like a broken toy.

[ Gerald calls ambulance ]



*

[ Hospital ]

[ Jenny is there, tells doctors it's OK for Gerald to be there  ]

[ Karl has a tumour in his forebrain, affecting his personality
Astrocytoma 

]

[ Doctors attempt to operate. He does not survive the surgery ]

[ Jenny won't talk to Gerald; leaves the country ]





One morning, a few months later


From a window above the street, the sound of soft guitar strings drifted. An idle breeze caressed and teased the fractal periphery of the treeline. Every surface seemed filled up with a warm light, and the air [on my skin] felt like a kind voice. 






*


Filby was ill, it turned out. He'd started it young, and gone on to the point where it had become a habit. It had progressed from a habit into a hobby, and then from a hobby into a way of life. That's not to say that he was a hypochondriac - on the contrary, hypochondriacs were envious of his unfailing susceptibility: where they'd be teased about their anxieties, Filby merely had to demonstrate his latest batch of symptoms to earn the gravest sympathies of a room. You name it - he'd had it. His immune system had long since given the thing up as a bad job, and according to all the statistics he should have died hard enough to leave a crater in the actuarial charts - yet somehow he carried on. Perhaps it was a sheer determination not to leave without having tried every possible illness, or perhaps it was simply that his body had become the host for a kind of Battle Royale in which each disease was fighting the others for pride of place on the tombstone, and the business of actually finishing the job had been forgotten about. Anyway - as I say, he was a wreck.

But never having known health seemed to have given the guy a strange psychological advantage over the situation, and he had somehow arrived at a point where he didn't appear to mind even the most strenuous of these difficulties. He wore his new diseases like some people wear hats, and was insufferably cheerful. Filby seemed to have ended up at the hospital as much to meet like-minded people as out of any real physical necessity.

"So, what're you in for?" he'd asked me, wheeling himself over to my bedside. 

"I was bitten by a leopard. I think. It's all a bit unclear." I explained.

"Ahh yes, leopard bites can be nasty. Had to have my big toe amputated for one of those, and that was just a little 'un! 'Course, the whole leg's gone now. But I still sometimes get phantom pains in the toe... and when I do, it usually feels like leopard! Unmistakeable."

"Are you pulling my leg?" I asked, putting my foot in my mouth. He frowned at me.

"That's a bit insensitive, mate..."

I started to apologise, but he burst into a fit of foul, hacking laughter which went on for ages, and then gradually turned into some of the most disgusting coughing I've ever heard. I looked on with concern as this got more and more violent, with him rocking back and forth in his chair and changing colour, and finally, spattering a few droplets of blood onto the floor with each little rock.

"Nurse! Nurse, I think he needs help..."

No sooner had the nurse rushed to our side than the coughs started to slowly subside, and eventually they stopped and a tired face looked up. I was relieved. On realising it was just Filby and that he still hadn't actually died, the nurse rolled his eyes, wiped up the blood, and went back to checking people's drips.

"Just pulling yer todger, mate!" said Filby, with a throaty chuckle. "You do still have that, don't you?"

"Er. Yes - yes I do, thanks..."

"Good. That's good." 
He seemed satisfied with that, and wheeled off backwards around the corner and out of the ward.

*

As I lifted the stack of papers, I noticed a small black notebook that had been lying underneath. Apart from some dust it looked quite new; the pages had hardly been ruffled. 

-----

DREAM DIARY OF ANDY TENCH

2 January
In the supermarket, I urgently need to buy matches but I keep bumping into people that went to my school. Harry Green by the eggs, then Ellen Pringle next to the soup, then it's Mikey Willcox ramming me with his trolley in front of the cheese, then back to Harry again. Finally I make it to the magazines, where I see Julie Jones looking at me. She starts to kiss me but I suddenly remember the matches and wake up.

3 January
At a conference of some sort - guests have been provided with 'ice breaker' cards that suggest conversation topics. It seems to be working well and everybody is having fun. But my cards are all blank, or just say "talk about the weather". Soon nobody wants to talk to me, so I try stealing other people's cards. They keep fluttering out of reach, but then I finally get one and it says 'small willy'. Everybody laughs at me and I wake up.

4 January
Don't remember, something about a cat

5 January
I've made lots of money by writing a self-help book which encourages each reader to write their own customised self-help book that contains the answers to their specific problems, but I feel guilty because I know it's a load of rubbish and the trees are all being killed. I have to stop selling the books, so I hide them under my stairs, but people keep breaking in and leaving little piles of money. I wait next to the cupboard door all night, and when the intruders finally come I realise they are all little versions of myself. I wake up.

6 January 
I'm in my parents' house in WWII and I have to hide a witch from the SS. I can't tell anyone or she'll kill me - I put her under the stairs but when I come back later to give her a sandwich, she's gone somewhere else. I'm worried that she'll get discovered and then be angry at me. I go to look in the garden but it turns into a casino.

8 January 
I find a rubber hamburger and, though I can't remember why, I know that this object is somehow of very great significance. Unfortunately, I never find out whether or not this is the case - just walk around asking people (who think I'm crazy) before waking up parched.

14 April 
A man's after me with a hammer. I'm terrified he'll hurt me, but also overwhelmingly curious about the hammer. I can't look at it properly and it seems to shift between one of those big inflatable fairground hammers and a little doctor's reflex hammer. After a while the man seems to have gone and I am relieved but also a bit bored and disappointed. Now I'm in a desert next to a road. There's nothing for miles around, so I start to do a silly dance but then suddenly a car pulls up and I feel a bit embarrassed. The car is just waiting next to me and I can't see in the window, so I walk over to it. When I get right up close to the window I see that it is driven by a horrible sort of humanoid bird creature. It doesn't have wings but is covered with dirty white feathers, although they look as though they're moulting badly. He stares at me aggressively and asks me in a gruff, birdy voice: "Do you want a lift then, or not?" I'm quite nervous but I get into the passenger seat. As we drive away quickly I realise the glovebox contains a big rubber hammer.

----

[ CLUES: under stairs... rubber?  ]

Green of mist
falls through time
and accumulates upon the snow

I remember
your face, averted
staring past me through the room

